Write the OVERVIEW
When was the COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE?
Write the CHRONOLOGY OF IMPORTANT EVENTS?
Write the CHRONOLOGY OF COURT PROCEEDINGS?
What was the JUDGMENT?
What were the LAWS INVOLVED?
Who is the informant or complainant?
What is the name of the victim?
What is the date or of the commitment of the offence?
What is the place of occurrence of the offence?
How much time was taken by the police to reach the place of occurrence after?
the receipt of information of commission of the offence?
What is the name of the accused arrested at the spot?
What was the manner of assault?
What is the description of the weapon used during the occurrence of the offence?
What is the description of the specific overt act performed by of the accused person(s)?
Who identified the body of the deceased?
What was the statement of the accused person(s) under section 313 Cr.P.C on examination.?
When was the arrest memo prepared?
Whether there was any delay in preparing the arrest memo?
Whether the site map of the place of occurrence was prepared and incorporated in the case diary and exhibited before the court?
What is the name of the police officer who prepared the seizure list?
Whether the seized article(s) were sealed at the place of occurrence of the offence?
Whether any materials were seized at the place of occurrence of the offence?
What were the name(s) of seizure list witness(s)?
Whether the seizure list was prepared at the place of occurrence of the offence?
Whether the cause of death was mentioned in the inquest report?
What were the name(s) of inquest witness(s)?
Whether the inquest report was prepared at the place of occurrence of the offence?
What is the name of the police officer who prepared the inquest report?
Whether the occurrence of the offence took place in prosecution of the common object?
Whether the occurrence of the offence took place in furtherance of the common intention of the accused person(s)?
Whether there was an allegation of criminal conspiracy amongst accused persons?
Whether the copies of the seizure list supplied to the accused person(s)?
What was the date of institution of the FIR?
Whether the FIR was instituted on - oral statement or written report or fardbeyan?
What is the name of the police officer who recorded the statement?
What was the time of institution of the FIR?
Whether there was a delay in lodging the FIR?
What was the reason of delay (if any) in lodging the FIR?
Under which section(s) was the FIR filed?
What is the name of the accused person(s) in the FIR?
What was the number of the unknown accused persons in the FIR?
What is the name of the witness(s), if any, named in the written report/furdbeyan/oral statement?
Whether there is/are any injury/injuries mentioned in the FIR?
Whether there is any evidence as to previous conviction of the accused?
What is the name and designation of the investigating officer?
When did the investigating officer assume the charge of the investigation?
What is the name(s) of Charge-sheeted witness(s)?
Under which section(s) was the charge sheet filed?
What is the date, time and place of examining the witnesses by the investigating officer?
What is the date of submission of the charge sheet?
What is the date of cognizance of the offence or framing of charge?
What was the date of supply of the police paper to accused persons?
Whether the confession of the accused is extra judicial in nature?
What is the nature of the confession?
Whether any material has been recovered on the basis of confession?
Who is the eye-witness in the case?
Whether there is any injured eye witness in the case?
Whether there is any injury certificate of the injured eye witness?
Whether there is any discrepancy in the Ocular and Medical Evidence?
Who were the other eye witnesses present on the spot when the police reached the spot?
Which witness is narrating the injuries caused by the accused?
Which witness reached the place of occurrence of the offence?
What is the name(s) of Defence Witness(s) who has been examined?
What is the date on which prosecution witness(s) was examined?
Whether the witness(s) supported the prosecution case or turned hostile?
What is the nature of the witness(s)?
Which accused caused which injury on the body of the victim?
What is the date of remand of the accused?
Whether any injury/injuries were found on the body of accused person(s)?
Whether accused complained of any ill treatment at the hands of police personnel?
What are the names of the accused persons who conspired together?
What are the names of the abettors?
What is the name of the accused person(s) who was forwarded for trial?
What is the name(s) of the absconding accused person(s)?
Whether the accused has been examined as a witness?
Whether the T.I.P of unknown accused person(s) was conducted?
What is the name of the police officer who conducted the T.I.P?
Whether the T.I.P was conducted as per statutory provisions under Cr.P.C?
What is the name of witness(s) who participated in the T.I.P?
What is the name of the accused person(s) identified during the T.I.P?
What is the name of the accused person(s) not named in the FIR but identified during the T.I.P?
What was the date on which the judgment was delivered by the trial court?
What was the name of the Judge who conducted the trial?
Whether the accused was convicted/acquitted?
Whether the trial took place through video conferencing?
Whether court has examined any witness as court witness?
Whether any accused has been arrayed as witness during trial under section 319 Cr.P.C?
What was the number of the documentary evidence(s) exhibited by either of the sides and what was Exhibit No.?
Whether any accused arrayed as an approver?
Whether there was a part conviction in the present case?
Whether the accused has confessed during framing the charges?
What was the date fixed for judgment?
Whether the accused has taken the plea of an alibi?
Whether there was any evidence as to previous charge framed against the accused?
What was the number of material evidence(s) exhibited by either of the side with Material Exhibit No.?
What were the objection(s), if any, by either of the side at the time of exhibiting evidence(s)?
What was the date of receipt of record in the court of sessions after commitment?
What was the date on which summons were issued on accused person(s) on Bail?
What was the date fixed for defence evidence, if any?
What was the date fixed for the argument?
How many number of dates were taken for the conclusion of the argument?
When was the body of the deceased sent for post-mortem?
What was the name of the doctor who performed post-mortem?
What was the nature of injury/ injuries mentioned in the post-mortem report?
What was the nature of weapon(s) used and opined by the doctor causing injury/injuries to the deceased?
Are there any discrepancy/ies in the injury/injuries found on the person of victim/deceased and opined by the doctor in post-mortem vis-a vis nature of weapon used?
Are there any discrepancy/discrepancies in injury/injuries found on the person of victim/deceased in post-mortem report vis-a-vis the inquest report?
What is the cause of death stated in the post-mortem report?
What is the time of death stated on the post-mortem report?
What is the nature of food material(s) found in the stomach of the deceased?
Whether the viscera of the deceased was sent to forensic science laboratory?
What is the description of rigor mortis?
Whether the injury/injuries were ante-mortem/post-mortem?
Whether there was any foreign body found in the body of the deceased?
When was the report from the forensic science laboratory received?
When was the report received from the forensic science laboratory adduced before the Court?
Whether any material was sent to the forensic science laboratory for forensic examination?
Whether the forensic science laboratory report was formally proved by its Author?
What is the quantum of substantive sentence and the amount of fine?
What was the date of hearing of the sentence?
Whether any evidence(s) was adduced before the court during the hearing of the sentence?
When was the post-mortem report collected by the police officer?
What circumstances did the prosecution rely upon at the time of trial?
What is the defence taken by the accused?
What was the nature of the external injury/injuries on the person of the deceased?
What was the nature of the internal injury or injuries on the body of the deceased?
In which court was the trial held?
What was the date of institution of the domestic violence case?
In which police station was the FIR instituted?
How many witnesses were examined by the prosecution.?
What is the FIR number?
What is the name of the judge who charged the accused?
What was the date of institution of trial?
After how long was the post-mortem conducted since the time of death?
Judge convicted the accused?
Is the death sentence conditional?
Were copies of judgment and order on sentence supplied to the convict?
On what date was the death sentence reference filed in the High Court?
When was the post-mortem on the deceased conducted?
What is the distance of the police station from the place of occurrence of the offence?
Who proved the MLC of the deceased?
What were the contentions of the accused?
For how long was the accused kept in police custody?
The statement of which witness was recorded under section 161 of Cr.P.C?
which police officer recorded the statement of witness under section 161 of Cr.P.C?
Who is the police-witness in the case?
Who prepared the crime team report?
How many accused person(s) are named in the FIR?
what are the names of doctors cited as witnesses?
what is the date of arrest?
What is the nature of the charge sheet?
what is the time of death of victim?
What is the name of the police officer who prepared the inquest proceedings?
What was the number of accused persons?
What is the name of the doctor who examined the witness?
What is the name of the station house officer (SHO)?
What is the name of the assistant commissioner of police(ACP)?
What is the FSL report number?
What is the MLC number?
What is the status of the accused stated in the charge sheet?
Does the charge sheet give any advice to the investigating officer?
How many sealed parcels were received by the forensic science laboratory?
How are the sealed articles described?
When were the sealed articles received by the FSL?
What is the result of the analysis of the sealed articles?
What techniques were used to examine the biological report?
What is the result of the biological report?
Who prepared the inquest papers?
Whether the post mortem report was formally proved by its Author?
Who assisted the Inspecting Officer in investigation?
Who are witnesses to the beatings given to the accused?
Was the MLC report adduced before the court?
On what date were the arguments heard?
Who is the most crucial witness of the prosecution?
When did the investigating officer receive the site map of the place of?
occurrence of offence?
Whether any subsequent opinion of weapon was sought by investigating officer?
What were the contentions of the prosecution?
Under which section was the domestic violence case filed?
What order was passed by the magistrate in the domestic violence case?
Whether benefit u/s 428 of Cr.P.C was given to the accused?
What was the number of inquest papers?
Who proved the crime team report?
Did the accused lead any evidence in his defence?
Which cases were cited during the trial?
Which cases were cited by the defence counsel during the trial?
Was the prosecution successful in proving its case?
Who are the material witnesses?
Who are the formal witnesses?
Who are the expert witnesses?
To whom was the dead body of the victim handed over?
What was the date on which the judgment was delivered by the High Court with respect to the death sentence reference appeal?
What was the name of the Judge who heard the death sentence reference appeal?
Under which section was death sentence referred to the High Court for confirmation?
Who prepared the rukka on receipt of information of the crime?
What were the steps taken after the information of the crime was given to the police?
Where was the accused arrested?
Who prepared the site plan of the place of occurrence?
When was the confession of the accused person(s) recorded?
Was the death sentence confirmed by the High Court?
When did the High Court give its decision on the death sentence?
When was the copy of the High Court judgment sent to the convict?
What was the mitigating circumstance for setting aside the death sentence?
Did the accused plead guilty and claim trial?
Were the convicts in judicial custody during the trial?
Under which sections was the accused convicted?
When was the PCR call related to the crime received?
Was the FIR read over to the complainant/informant?
Did the complainant/informant admit that the FIR was recorded correctly?
Was a copy of the FIR supplied to the complainant/informant?
What was the forensic evidence given in this case?
What is the date and time of receiving the body in mortuary?
Whether a recommendation was made u/s 357-A of Cr.P.C ?
What is the name(s) of Charge-sheeted accused person(s)?
What is the name of the deceased victim?
Who brought the certificate under section 65-B of the Evidence Act ?
What is the motive of commission of offence according to prosecution?
How did the police receive information about the accused person(s)?
Which convict paid the fine?
Whether the copy of police report supplied to the accused under section 207 of Cr.PC?
What is the name of the forensic expert who prepared the CFSL report?
Who were the witnesses to the arrest of the accused?
Whether there was any discrepancy in the medical evidence?
What techniques were used to examine the serological report?
Whether the transit remand for accused was obtained?