 




             (APPELLANT IS IN JAIL CUSTODY) 
         IN THE HIGH COURT OF JHARKHAND AT RANCHI 
            (CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION ) 
              Criminal Appeal No. 139/2007. 
   
                             IN THE MATTER OF: 
                             An application under 
                             section 374(2) and 389(1) 
                             of the Code of Criminal 
                             Procedure
                                        AND 
                             IN THE MATTER OF: 

Ramesh Oraon, Son of- Late Mahto Oraon, 
Resident of Village- Murgu, Chaili toli, Police Station-
                                                Sisai, 
District- Gumla, Jharkhand.               Appellant. 
                        VERSUS 
The State of Jharkhand.                   Opposite party. 
                




To, 
THE HON'BLE SRI M. KARPAGA VINAYAGAM, 
THE CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE HIGH COURT OF 
JHARKHAND AT RANCHI AND HIS OTHER COMPANION 
JUSTICES OF THE SAID HON'BLE COURT 
                  The humble petition on 
                  behalf of the appellant 
                  above named ;

MOST RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH :-

1. That the instant appeal has been preferred by 
the appellant against the Judgement and Order of convic- 
-tion dated 17-20/11/2006, passed by Sri Ramesh Kumar 
Srivastava, Learned Additional Sessions Judge, Fast 
Track Court No.1, Gumla in Sessions Trial Case No.15/2006 
whereby and whereunder the Learned trial court has been 





pleased to find the appellant guilty for the offence 
under section 302/34 and sentenced him to undergo impri- 
-sonment for life. 

2. That the appellant has not preferred any appeal 
to this Hon'ble Court against the Judgement and 
Order of conviction prior to this. 

3. That the First Information Report in this instant 
case has been registered on the basis of written statement 
of one Sant Kumar Oraon on 16.9.2005. 

That the prosecution story in nutshell is that 
on 15.9.2005 his younger brother Vishwanath Oraon 
(deceased) was dancing alongwith co-villagers Chawa Oraon 
(deceased), Ramesh Oraon and Chotan Jhora, after consuming 
country made liqour. Thereafter at about 9:30 p.m. 





co-villager Sushil Oraon came to the house of the 
(informent) Sant Kumar Oraon and told that Vishwanath 
Oraon and Chawa Oraon have been murdered by Ramesh 
Oraon(Appellant), Chotan Jhora, Duti Devi and Sarsati 
Oraon by assaulting them with Lathi, Tangi, and a dagger. 
The dead body of Vishwanath Oraon is lying at the house 
of Chotan Jhora and the dead body of Chawa Oraon is also 
lying nearby. 

The informent has further alleged that it was 
also told to him that both the deceased were taken from 
the place of playing Jhumar to the house of Chotan 
Jhora by Ramesh Oraon(Appellant) He has also alleged 
that on an enquiry he was told that by some villagers 
that they heard the wife of Chotan Jhora saying "Keep 
them assaulting till they die". The informant has also 
expressed his inability to spell out the motive behind 
the alleged occurrence. 





4. That the prosecution in order to establish its 
case has examined altogether eitht witnesses out of 
which  :-  

P.W.-1 Prakash Oraon:- This witness is the seizure 
list witness and has proved his signature upon 
seizer memo made for the articles recovered 
from the house of co-accused Chotan Oraon. 
At para-1 this witness has stated that 
the police arrived at the place of occurrence 
on the next day of the alleged occurrence and 
seized blood stained Bhujali, Lathi and Tangi 
from the house of accused Chotan Jhora. 

P.W.-2 Rajendra Lohra:- This witness is also a seizure 
list witness and has at Para-1 of his evidence 
stated that the police recovered a Bhujali and 
Tangi from the house of Chotan Jhora whereas the 





Lathi was recovered from the Bamboo bush of one 
Kapil Oraon. 

P.W.-3 Sandeep Oraon:- This witness is the brother of 
one of the deceased (Vishwanath Oraon) and is a 
hearsay witness to the alleged occurrence. 
At Para-5 of his cross-examination he has 
stated that there is no enimity between the accu- 
-sed person and his family. 

P.W.-4 Jugesh Oraon :- This witness is also the brother 
of one of the deceased (Vishwanath Oraon) and is 
a hearsay witness to the alleged occurrence. 
At Para-5 of his evidence he has stated that 
he was told by Sushil(P.W.-8) that Chotan Jhora, 
Ramesh Oraon, Duti Orain and Saraswati have given 
effect to the alleged murder by assaulting the 
deceased persons. 





He has also stated that in his cross exami- 
-nation that the accused shared normal relation 
with his family.

P.W.-5 Sant Kumar Oraon:- This witness is also the 
brother of one of the decaased Vishwanath Oraon 
and is also a hearsay witness to the alleged 
occurrence. 

At Para 1 of his evidence he has stated that he 
got the information that the alleged occurrence 
was given effect by the accused persons through 
Sushil Oraon (P.W. 8). 

At Para-7 of his cross examination he has stated 
that there was cordial relationship between the
family of Ramesh(Appellant) and his family. 
He has further stated that on the alleged 
date of occurrence all people were drunk. 





P.W.-6 Dr. Mahendra Kumar Singh:- This witness is the 
doctor who conducted Post Mortem examination on 
the dead body of the deceased Chawa Oraon and 
Vishwanath Oraon on 16.29.2005. 

P.W.-7 Ramjee Mahto:- This witness is the investigating 
officer of the case and at Para-3 of his evidence 
stated that the formal inquest report is not 
present in the diary.

At Para-10 of his evidence he has stated that no 
incriminating material has been recovered from 
the house of Ramesh Oraon (Appellant). 

P.W.-8 Sushil Oraon:- This witness is also the brother 
of the deceased Vishwanath Oraon and is a hearsay 
witness to the alleged occurrence. 





At Para-1 of his evidence he has stated that on 
getting the information about the alleged occurr- 
ence from one Ganga Oraon he went to the place 
of occurrence. 

In the same Para he has further stated that he 
came to know that one Chotan Jhora has given effect 
to the alleged occurrence. 

He has further stated that he is not aware as to 
who apart from Chotan Jhora had given effect to 
the alleged occurrence. 

In his cross examination he has further stated 
that he is making hearsay statement. 

5. That the Learned Trial Court failed to take into 
consideration that there is no eye witness to the alleged 
occurrence and the entire prosecution story relies hearing 
on circumstantial evidence. 





6. That the Learned Trial Court failed to take into 
consideration that apart from the formal witnesses all 
the other witnesses are highly interested and related 
witnesses and as such to rely on their testimony when they 
have not witnessed the actual occurrence is not a  
safe preposition. 

7. That the Learned Trial Court failed to take into 
consideration that all the prosecution witnesses have 
unanimously asserted that they came to know about the 
appellants involvement in the alleged occurrence from 
P.W.-8, but P.W. 8 who happens to be the only star witness 
of the prosecution has not stated a word about the 
involvement of this appellant(Ramesh Oraon) behind the 
alleged occurrence. 
He has at Para-1 of his evidence stated that he 
came to know that the alleged occurrence was given effect 
by one Chotan Jhora. 





It is also pertinent to mention herein that no 
recovery of dead body as well as weapon of assault was 
made from the house of the Appellant rather the same was made 
from the house of Chotan Jhora. 

8. That the Learned Trial Court failed to take into 
consideration that P.W.3/4 8, the star witness of the prose  
cution has stated that he got information about the 
alleged occurrence from one Ganga Oraon. However, Ganga 
Oraon has not been examined by the prosecution and as 
such the Appellant is entitled to the principle of optional 
presumption under section 114 illustration 
(G) of the Indian Evidence Act. 

9. That the Learned Trial Court failed to take into 
consideration that the prosecution has not been able to 
assign any motive behind the alleged occurrence and as a 





matter of fact all the witnesses have categorically 
stated that the relationship between them and the appell  
-ant was cordial and as such without any motive and 
on the basis of hearsay evidence it is not proper to hold 
the Appellant guilty under section 302.

10. That the Learned Trial Court failed to take into 
consideration that on the proper scrutiny of the deposition 
of prosecution witnesses it transpires that there are 
serious and material differences which strikes at the very 
base of prosecution's claim behind the alleged occurrence 
and as such it is not safe to  on their evidence. 

11. That the appellant has been at along in jail,.
             Being aggrieved and dissatisfied with 
             the Judgement and Order dated 17-20. 
             11.2006, passed by Sri Ramesh Kumar 
             Srivastava, Learned Additional 
             Sessions Judge, Gumla, in Sessions 
             Trial No. 15/2006, the appellant 





             above named beg to move before this 
             Hon'ble Court all amongst others the 
             followings grounds:-

GROUNDS:- 

(i) For that the Impugned Order and sentence 
passed by the Learned Additional Sessions Judge 
is not at all maintainable in the facts and 
circumstances involved in this case. 

(ii) For that the Impugned Order and sentence passed 
by the concerned Court below is unjust, improper, 
bad and illegal in the eye of law. 

(iii) For that the Learned Court below has passed the 
Judgement and sentence in utter violation of the 
existing law and without applying the judicial 
mind mechanically and in most irregular manner. 





(iv) For that the Learned Court below has not taken 
into consideration the serious contradiction 
made by the Prosecution Witnesses in their Exa-  
-mination/Deposition. 

(v) For that Learned Court below has passed the 
Impugned Judgement and Order of Sentence mecha- 
-nically without applying the judicial mind and 
without following the prescribe norms and laws 
of the procdedure. 

(vi) For that the other and further grounds shall be 
urged at the time of hearing of this cases. 

(vii) For that the Learned Trial Court has not taken 
into consideration that the medical evidence is 
not consistant to the statement of the informent 





(viii) For that the Learned Trial Court has also not 
taken into consideration that the statement of 
the informent has not been supported by any 
other independent witness. 

(ix) For that the Learned Trial Court has also not 
taken into consideration that the statement of 
sole eye witness is also contradictory. 

(x) For that the appellant was not examined properly 
under section 313 of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure and relevant questions were put to 
him. 
            It is therefore prayed that Your 
            Lordships be very graciously 
            pleased to admit this appeal, call 
            for the Lower Court record of 





            Sessions Trial Case No. 15/2006 from 
            the Court of Learned Additional Sessions
            Judge Fask Track Court No.1 Gumla, notice the 
            respondent, and on hearing, set aside the 
            Impugned Judgement of Conviction and Sentence 
            dt. 17-20/11/2006. 
                         A N D/O R 
            Pass such other order/orders as Your 
            Lordships may deem fit and proper under 
            the facts and circumstances of this 
            case. 
                         A N D 
            It is further prayed that Your Lord- 
            ships be pleased to admit the appell- 
            ant on bail. 
And for this act of kindness the appellant shall ever pray. 





               AFFIDAVIT 

I, Jitesh Oraon Son of Etwa Oraon 
Resident of Telgaon Kumba to Police Station  
District Gumla do hereby solemnly affirm and 
states as follows:- 

1. That I am the pairvikar of the petitioner in this 
case and as such well acquainted with the facts and cirs 
cumstances of the case.

2. That the contents of this petition and affidavit 
have been read over and explained to me in Hindi which I 
fully understood the same. 

3. That the statements made in paragraphs 2 and 11 
are true to the best of my knowledge and those made in 
paragraphs 1,3,4 are derived from the record of 
the case, which I fully understood the same. 

4. That the annexures are the Xerox/Certified copies 
of its originals.

5. That I Have signed and verified this affidavit on 
5.2.07 at Ranchi. 



